# Pokemon_Data_Analysis_and_ML

While I am still very new to the world of Data Science, this project is meant to combine the things that I have learned in my Stats 426 Data Science class with my love for Pokemon. I realize I have probably made plenty of mistakes in my analysis, but that is okay. Thanks to Yassine Alouini who created this Kaggle notebook https://www.kaggle.com/yassinealouini/pokemons-machine-learning-101 and Syed (Sadat) Nazrul who created this one https://github.com/snazrul1/PyRevolution/blob/master/Puzzles/PokeScraper.ipynb. I learned a lot from their notebooks and used some of their code in my own notebook.

Highlights of the notebook:

1. This notebook attempts to answer the research question "Can I use machine learning to predict a new pokemon's primary Type?" To accomplish this I first needed to get data on all of the Pokemon. I learned from Syed (Sadat) Nazrul's notebook on how to webscrape data from  (http://pokemondb.net/pokedex/all) and then I used his example to scrape additional data from https://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/wiki/Main_Page. Afterwards I synthisized the three different tables that I scraped into a Pandas dataframe which contained the Names, pokedex #, and statistics of all the Pokemon. I realize I could have simply found a csv file with all of the Pokemon's data in it had I looked for one, but going through the webscraping process was part of the learning experience.

2. I cleaned the data and decided to fill in the missing Type_2 data with the word "None." This was probably the first big decision in this project. Another option that I could have done was to impute the missing data using the Pokemon's Type 1. This would cause Charmander who has type 1 = "Fire" and type 2 = "None" to instead become a type 1 = "Fire" and type 2 = "Fire." I have no idea how that might have changed the analysis, but after the first round of EDA I noticed that around half of the pokemon do not have a second typing. 

3. After cleaning the data my professor required all of us to create some thoughtful new features. In my case I decided to add columns for Legendary status, Evolution state, Forms, and combat role. As it turned out most of these features were probably unnecassary and I believe they caused my models to weaken from overfitting. Were I to continue working on this project I would likely start over at this point and try fitting models without new features.

4. Going through the EDA step I looked at a correlation matrix of the data after I encoded Type_1 and converted my categorical variables to dummy variables. The correlation matrix showed several features that were correlated with my target so at that point I was hopeful for good results.

5. For the analysis I split the data into training and testing sets. I then tried fitting 4 different models: Logistic Regression as a baseline, Random Forest, K-Nearest Neighbors and a Neural Network. My Random Forest model was the best performer, however that is not saying much as the F1 weighted score was a measly 0.239. This indicates that even my best model had  high false positives and high false negatives. Therefore, the answer to my research question of "Can I use machine learning to predict a new pokemon's primary Type?" is no. This doesn not mean that a successful model cannot be built, but simply that I was unable to build one that does a good job at predict a Pokemon's type given the dataset that I was using.
