# Pokemon_Data_Analysis_and_ML

While I am still very new to the world of Data Science, this project is meant to combine the things that I have learned in my Stats 426 Data Science class with my love for Pokemon. I realize I have probably made plenty of mistakes in my analysis, but that is okay. Thanks to Yassine Alouini who created this Kaggle notebook https://www.kaggle.com/yassinealouini/pokemons-machine-learning-101 and Syed (Sadat) Nazrul who created this one https://github.com/snazrul1/PyRevolution/blob/master/Puzzles/PokeScraper.ipynb. I learned a lot from their notebooks and used some of their code in my own notebook.

Highlights of the notebook:

1. This notebook attempts to answer the research question "Can I use machine learning to predict a new pokemon's primary Type?" To accomplish this I first needed to get data on all of the Pokemon. I learned from Syed (Sadat) Nazrul's notebook about how to webscrape data from  (http://pokemondb.net/pokedex/all) and then I used his example to scrape additional data from https://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/wiki/Main_Page. You can see this process in section 2 of my Stats426_Final.ipynb. Next, I create the three different Pandas dataframe from tables that I scraped. df1 is the primary Pandas dataframe that I used through my project and it contains the Names, pokedex #, and statistics of all the Pokemon. df2 contained data on all fully evolved pokemon that I used to create a feature in df1. df3 contained data on all of the evolutions of all of the pokemon (including the starter and middle stages), it did not include the pokeomon's number however. I realize I could have simply found a csv file with the majority of the Pokemon's data in it if I had looked for one, but going through the webscraping process was part of the learning experience.

2. The next step was to clean my data. I went through several steps to fix the columns in df1 as well as the columns that I wanted to use from df2 and df3. The first big decision of my project took place here. I decided to fill in the missing Type_2 data in df1 with the word "None." Another option that I could have done was to impute the missing data using the Pokemon's Type 1. This would cause the Pokemon Charmander who has type 1 = "Fire" and type 2 = "None" to instead become a type 1 = "Fire" and type 2 = "Fire." I do not know how that might have changed the analysis, but after the first round of EDA I noticed that around half of the pokemon do not have a second typing. Therefore, had I imputed the type 1 onto the missing type 2 I believe it would have introduced a massive amount of bias. 

3. In section 4 of the project I attempted to create some thoughtful new features. In my case I decided to add columns for Legendary status, Evolution state, Forms, and combat role. As it turned out most of these features were probably unnecassary and I believe they caused my models to weaken from overfitting.

4. In Section 5 I looked at a correlation matrix of the data after I encoded Type_1 and converted my categorical variables to dummy variables. The correlation matrix showed some features that had a weak to moderate correlation with my target, but it didn't look great.

5. For the analysis I split the data into training and testing sets. My testing Dataset was made up of 20% of my data while the training set got 80%. I then tried fitting 4 different models: Logistic Regression as a baseline, Random Forest, K-Nearest Neighbors and a Neural Network. My Random Forest model was the best performer, however that is not saying much as the F1 weighted score was a measly 0.239. This indicates that even my best model had high false positives and high false negatives. Therefore, the answer to my research question of "Can I use machine learning to predict a new pokemon's primary Type?" is no. This doesn not mean that a successful model cannot be built, but simply that I was unable to build one that does a good job at predict a Pokemon's type given the dataset that I was using.

Looking to the Future:

Were I to continue working on this project I would likely look closer at part 5 onwards. In hindsight I realized that my concern of overfitting and having weak features could have been addressed by using Principal Component Analysis to only select the strongest features.
